Data Warehousing and Building Analytics at Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum
=======

Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum ( CHSDM ) is generating and collecting large amounts of data. While this data has traditionally been in the form of Web Analytics, Ticketing and CRM data, it has more recently been found in the data and logs generated by our interactive Pen. As part of the effort to make our visitor experience the best it can be, we’ve started to develop new data analytics tools to allow our own staff to look into all of our datasets at once, generating queries and reports in a more holistic and cohesive way by using a technique known as Data Warehousing.

This paper will use data collected and generated by CHSDM as a case study. Included in this data are the millions of rows of collected objects generated by The Pen, as well as many other aspects of the museum’s systems and services. At the time of this writing The Pen has been issued to over 130,000 visitors and used to collect over 3 million objects in our galleries and through our interactive tables. Each time an object is collected, we record the pen that was used to collect it, the time and date it was collected, and whether it was collected from a label on the wall or through our interactive table. 

We know which objects were the most popular at any given time, how long visitors spent in our galleries, and many other quantitative facts. We are beginning to be able to develop an deep understanding around the ways our visitors behave with The Pen and this paper will attempt to explain how we can continue to develop the tools necessary to dig even deeper.
